# gem5_Cache_Replacement_Policies_Verification
Directory **`solved`** has the verification Python scripts, cache access patterns used for the verification, and the expected cache hit/miss ratios generated from the Python scripts for each cache replacement policy that has been "solved" or verified. For each verified cache replacement, a small Python script simulating that cache replacement policy is developed, and an `accessPatterns.txt` contains 13 access patterns. The first three cache access patterns in the corresponding `accessPatterns.txt` are carefully designed, which are used for ensuring that the precited cache hit/miss ratios generated from the Python script are correct. With this, we don't need to manually calculate the expected cache hit/miss ratios anymore, which is slow and error-prone. The following ten cache access patterns are randomly generated by another Python script **`gen30.py`** included in the root directory of this repository. Those ten cache access patterns will be run on the verification Python script and then on the gem5. By collecting and comparing the cache hit/miss ratios generated from the Python script and gem5, we can verify whether or not gem5 implements these cache replacement policies correctly or at least meets our expectations. 

Note that each cache access pattern has 30 cache accesses, and cache access patterns used for verifying each cache replacement policy are entirely different.

On the other hand, directory **`unsolved`** lists the cache replacement policies that haven't been verified due to their implementation complexity or the randomization in their implementations, which makes their expected cache hit/miss ratio hard to predict and verify.
